# Book: Translating Ordinary Language Statements into Categorical Form

## Terms Without Nouns
- Add an appropriate noun to for the predicate term

## Nonstandard Verbs
- Don't just replace the verb
- Turn the verb into part of a noun expression using "that" or "who" or "which"

## Singular Propositions
- Use "identical to" to turn a reference to a single person, place, or things
  into a class
  - All people identical to Robert are people who live at Robert's house.
- Don't use if you already have a plural noun
- Don't use "...like" or "...similar to"; only "...identical" will suffice

## Adverbs and Pronouns
- Use "places", "people", "things", and "times" to replace certain adverbs
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
He always wears a suit to work. => All times he goes to work are times he wears a suit.

He is always clean shaven. => All times are times he is clean shaven.

She never brings her lunch to school. => No times she goes to school are times she brings her lunch.

Nowhere on earth are there any unicorns. => No places on earth are places there are unicorns.

Whoever works hard will succeed. => All people who work hard are people who will succeed.

Whenever he wins he celebrates. => All times he wins are times he celebrates.

She goes where she chooses. => All places she chooses to go are places she goes.

She does what she wants. => All things she wants to do are things she does.

## Unexpressed Quantifiers
- Add the quantifier
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
A tiger roared. => Some tigers are animals that roared.

Children live next door. => Some children are people who live next door.

## Nonstandard Quantifiers
- Quantity in these is indicated by words other than "all", "no", and "some"
- Change the wording to use "all, "no", or "some"
- Sometimes a conjunction of statements is needed
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
Not everyone who votes is a Democrat. => Some voters are not Democrats.

All prisoners are not violent. => Some prisoners are not violent people.

## Conditional Statements
- If part goes to subject
- Only if goes to predicate
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
If it's a mouse, then it's a mammal. => All mice are mammals.

A car is a Camry only if it's a Toyota. => All Camrys are Toyotas.

A knife will cut only if it isn't dull. => No knives that cut are dull knives.

## Exclusive Propositions
- "only", "none but", "none except", "no...except"
- Often lead to subject-predicate confusion
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
Only elected officials will attend the convention. => All people who will attend the convention are elected officials.

Only Megan painted a picture. => All people identical to Megan are people who painted a picture and all people who painted a picture are people identical to Megan.

## "The Only"
- Translated as "all"
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
The only animals that live in this canyon are skunks. => All animals that live in this canyon are skunks.

Accountants are the only ones who will be hired. => All those who will be hired are accountants.

## Exceptive Propositions
- "All except S are P"; "All but S are P"
- Translated to two categorical propositions
┌────────┐
│Examples│
└────────┘
All except students are invited. => No students are invited people, and all nonstudents are invited people.
